.TH SESSION 1 "June 2015" "Tarim" "User Commands"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
.PP
\f[B]session\f[] \- run a command with its own session id
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]session\f[] [\f[I]OPTIONS\f[]] \f[I]FILE\f[] \f[I]COMMAND\f[]
.PP
\f[B]session\f[] [\f[I]OPTIONS\f[]] \f[B]-kill\f[]
[\f[I]-SIGNAL\f[]] \f[I]FILE\f[]
.PP
\f[B]session\f[] [\f[B]-status\f[]] \f[I]FILE\f[]
.PP
\f[B]session\f[]
[\f[B]-help\f[]|\f[B]-man\f[]|\f[B]-html\f[]|\f[B]-version\f[]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]session\f[] is a lightweight daemon controller.
\f[I]COMMAND\f[] is run under a new session id which is written to
FILE.
The \f[I]COMMAND\f[], along with any processes it spawned, can be
terminated with the \f[B]-kill\f[] option.
.PP
\f[I]COMMAND\f[] may be run with a watchdog so that, if it dies, it
can be automatically restarted after a delay.
Alternatively a watchdog command may be run before restart.
.PP
Session ids are sometimes, confusingly, referred to as process
group ids (particularly by \f[B]ps\f[]).
Any process spawned will have the same session id as its parent
unless it is specifically changed.
Thus, any process spawned can be easily identified even if its
original parent has terminated.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Most options may be preceded by \f[B]-\f[] or \f[B]--\f[].
\f[I]COMMAND\f[] can be multiple arguments.
.SS \f[B]-k\f[], \f[B]-kill\f[] [\f[I]-SIGNAL\f[]]
.PP
Terminates all processes with the session id specified in
\f[I]FILE\f[] and removes \f[I]FILE\f[].
With \f[I]-SIGNAL\f[], sends each process that signal instead of
\f[B]SIGTERM\f[] but doesn't remove \f[I]FILE\f[].
Thus, it is possible to do:
.PP
\f[CR]
      session\ -k\ -SIGINT\ /tmp/mydaemon.pgid
      sleep\ 2
      session\ -k\ /tmp/mydaemon.pgid
\f[]
.SS \f[B]-status\f[]
.PP
Lists all processes with that session id.
.SS \f[B]-cleanup\f[]
.PP
If \f[I]COMMAND\f[] terminates then attempted to kill all other
process with the same session id.
Note that the default is not to terminate other session id
processes when the initial \f[I]COMMAND\f[] terminates.
.SS \f[B]-watchdog\f[] [\f[I]DELAY\f[]]
.PP
If \f[I]COMMAND\f[] terminates for any reason, wait for
\f[I]DELAY\f[] (default 5) seconds and respawn the
\f[I]COMMAND\f[].
Implies \f[B]-cleanup\f[].
.SS \f[B]-watchcmd\f[] \f[I]WATCHCOMMAND\f[]
.PP
Instead waiting for DELAY seconds; execute \f[I]WATCHCOMMAND\f[].
Implies \f[B]-cleanup\f[].
\f[I]WATCHCOMMAND\f[] must be a single or quoted argument.
It will be called with arguments of \f[I]FILE\f[] and
\f[I]COMMAND\f[].
.SS \f[B]-user\f[] \f[I]USER\f[]
.PP
Run the command as this user.
If given, this must be the first option.
Maybe useful when calling session from rc.local (which is run as
root).
.SS \f[B]-help\f[], \f[B]-man\f[], \f[B]-html\f[]
.PP
Gives this documentation in text, man or html format.
.SH FILES
.PP
FILE is the file that session keeps the session id of the
\f[I]COMMAND\f[] in.
Most usefully kept in a directory, such as \f[B]/tmp\f[], which
will not remain over reboots.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
Option processing is somewhat picky.
Specifying more than one of \f[B]-watchdog\f[], \f[B]-watchcmd\f[],
\f[B]-cleanup\f[] will give somewhat confusing error messages.
If specified, \f[B]-user\f[] must come first and will tend to trash
quoted arguments.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Written by Tarim.
Error reports to <session-cmd@mediaplaygrounds.co.uk>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[B]pkill\f[](1), \f[B]setsid\f[](1), \f[B]signal\f[](7)
